well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again people seem to enjoy using a song
to get it a deeper meaning so tonight
we're going to talk about a song that
has a deeper meaning that people have
been talking about for 40 or 50 years
trying to figure out the mystery of the
song what it means and the funny part is
the reason I think people can't figure
it out is because the deeper meaning of
the song is true so tonight we're going
to talk about why Billy Joe McAllister
jumped off the Tallahatchie bridge name
of the song is ode to Billy Joe written
by Bobby gentry not Janis Joplin no were
that anyway so that song what's it about
we don't know right it's a mystery it's
a mystery because we don't know what
they threw off the bridge it's driving
the country crazy for 40 or 50 years now
see the thing is it doesn't matter
because that's not the point of the song
so there are theories about what was
thrown off the bridge and they run wild
everything from a wedding ring to
flowers to a rag doll to a baby the
meaning of the song think is even darker
than any of that any of it
the point of the song is not why Billy
Joe jumped off the bridge it's not it's
an inciting incident but that's not the
plot it's not the plot people talk about
that missing fact it's a negative fact
something you expect to be there it
isn't just like the Sherlock Holmes
story sometimes that can point you to
the right question sometimes it can give
you the answer but the answer is only
important if you're asking the right
question the question isn't what far off
the bridge the question is why didn't
the author include it because not
important it's not important the plot is
not him jumping off the bridge the plot
is the conversation at the table nobody
at that table with the exception of the
narrator could tell you and she doesn't
I think it points to something a little
darker
there are times when people go that
route I'll show them they'll miss me
when I'm gone but what the song shows is
that that's really not true what the
song shows is that those people that
don't like you like the father thought
you never had a lick of sense pass the
biscuits oh I got to get that bottom 40
acres done your friend from when you
were younger that's some apple pie
they'll be cared except for one person
his girlfriend
nurses family didn't even know who's his
girlfriend she cared lost her appetite
you only hurt the ones you love when you
go that route life is never without the
means to dismiss itself but that seems
like a really really bad reason to do it
because the only people who care would
be the only people who cared when you
were still alive
the reason that meaning doesn't get
picked up is because it's true when we
listen to that we don't think of that as
abnormal that nobody at the table cared
because we know it's true deep down it's
true we don't care what are we focused
on what did they throw off the bridge
what's the scandal what's the gossip
don't care about the life the fact that
we focus on what they threw off the
bridge shows that it's true that very
disturbing dark reality is true now
Bobbie Gentry was very smart she never
actually disclosed her meaning in fact
one time when she was asked she said I
don't know but I failed to believe that
a storyteller like her didn't have a
deeper point at the one time she hinted
to it she said that a lot of people had
made you know guesses as to what was
throwing off the bridge but that's not
the message if there had to be a message
it was a nonchalant conversation at the
table
kind of exploring what happens after you
go especially if you go that round and I
think that's even darker than the baby
anyway it's just a thought I'll have a
good night